static/app/components/core/principles/tokens/tokens.mdx, before:

---
title: Tokens
description: Tokens are the smallest unit of a Design System. They represent discrete design decisions in a platform-agnostic way.
status: in-progress
resources:
  figma: https://www.figma.com/design/97XKAiOW0Rg8Rk1hb02R4E/%F0%9F%90%A6-Primitives?node-id=446-34701&p=f&t=secYuPMqzV9RoH8F-0
  js: https://github.com/getsentry/design-engineering/tree/main/packages/scraps/src/tokens
  reference:
    DTCG Glossary: https://www.designtokens.org/glossary/
    Design Tokens Format Module: https://www.designtokens.org/tr/third-editors-draft/format/
    Design Tokens explained: https://atlassian.design/tokens/design-tokens
---

import {Fragment} from 'react';
import {useTheme} from '@emotion/react';

import {Container, Flex} from 'sentry/components/core/layout';
import {Text} from 'sentry/components/core/text';
import * as Storybook from 'sentry/stories';
// eslint-disable-next-line @sentry/scraps/no-token-import -- temporary until theme.borderWidth is exposed
import {size} from 'sentry/utils/theme/scraps/tokens/size';

# Color

## Categories

Colors have been organized into separate scales for specific use cases.

| Category      | Description                                                                                            |
| ------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `background`  | Painting an element's background.                                                                      |
| `content`     | Painting text and icons which need to stand out the most.                                              |
| `graphics`    | Painting icons and other graphical elements which don't need to stand out as much as `content` tokens. |
| `border`      | Painting borders of containers or visual diagrams.                                                     |
| `shadow`      | Painting shadows of containers.                                                                        |
| `interactive` | Painting interactive elements and all their states.                                                    |
| `syntax`      | Painting `<code/>` elements that depend on PrismJS.                                                    |
| `focus`       | Painting `:focus` or validation states.                                                                |
| `dataviz`     | Painting chart data.                                                                                   |

## Variants

For consistency, token scales and `variant` properties have been standardized with the following terminology.

| Keyword     | Description                                                   |
| ----------- | ------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `neutral`   | Neutral is the subtle, grayscale variant                      |
| `accent`    | The call-to-action colour for interactive elements.           |
| `info`      | Semantically charged, informing users of important facts.     |
| `promotion` | Semantically charged, encouraging users to invest in Sentry.  |
| `warning`   | Semantically charged, alerting users of a potential issue.    |
| `danger`    | Semantically charged, alerting users of a issue.              |
| `success`   | Semantically charged, informing users of a desired end-state. |

## Background

Background tokens paint an element's background.

<BackgroundColors />

## Content

Content tokens paint text and icons.

<ContentColors />

## Border

Border tokens paint borders of containers.

<BorderColors />

## Graphics

Graphics tokens paint icons and other graphical elements.

<GraphicsColors />

## Shadow

Shadow tokens paint shadows of containers.

<ShadowColors />

## Focus

Focus tokens paint focus rings and validation states.

<FocusColors />

## Dataviz

Dataviz tokens paint chart data. The categorical scale provides colors for series data, while the semantic scale provides meaningful colors for outcomes.

### Categorical

<DatavizCategoricalColors />

### Semantic

<DatavizSemanticColors />

# Size

Size based tokens are based on a `4px` grid.

## Space

Space values are used for layout components such as [`<Container/>`](/stories/layout/container), [`<Flex/>`](/stories/layout/flex), [`<Grid/>`](/stories/layout/grid), as well as CSS properties like `gap` and `padding`.

<Space />

## Radius

Radius values define the rounded corners of [`<Container />`](/stories/layout/container) and [`<Flex />`](/stories/layout/flex) components using the CSS property `border-radius`.

<Radius />

## Border Width

Border Width values define the thickness of borders using the CSS properties `border-width` and `outline-width`.

<BorderWidth />

## Shadow Offset

Shadow Offset values define the distance of shadows and borders for raised interactive elements.

<ShadowOffset />

# Typography

Typography tokens are used with the [`<Text />`](/stories/typography/text) and [`<Heading />`](/stories/typography/heading) components to define Sentry's information hierarchy.

## Font Size

<FontSize />

## Font Weight

<FontWeight />

## Font Family

<FontFamily />

## Line Height

<LineHeight />

export function Space() {
  const theme = useTheme();
  return (
    <Storybook.TokenReference
      scale="space"
      tokens={theme.space}
      renderToken={({value}) => (
        <Flex
          align="center"
          justify="center"
          as="div"
          width={value}
          height="16px"
          borderLeft="accent"
          borderRight="accent"
          style={{boxSizing: 'border-box'}}
        >
          <Container
            as="div"
            width="100%"
            height="1px"
            borderTop="accent"
            style={{boxSizing: 'border-box'}}
          />
        </Flex>
      )}
    />
  );
}

export function Radius() {
  const theme = useTheme();
  return (
    <Storybook.TokenReference
      scale="radius"
      tokens={theme.radius}
      renderToken={({token}) => (
        <Container
          as="div"
          style={{
            boxSizing: 'border-box',
            width: '48px',
            height: '48px',
            background: theme.tokens.background.transparent.accent.muted,
          }}
          border="accent"
          radius={token}
        />
      )}
    />
  );
}

export function FontSize() {
  const theme = useTheme();
  return (
    <Storybook.TokenReference
      scale="font.size"
      tokens={theme.font.size}
      renderToken={({token}) => (
        <Text size={token} variant="accent">
          Aa
        </Text>
      )}
    />
  );
}

export function FontWeight() {
  const theme = useTheme();
  const tokens = {
    'sans.regular': theme.font.weight.sans.regular,
    'sans.medium': theme.font.weight.sans.medium,
    'mono.regular': theme.font.weight.mono.regular,
    'mono.medium': theme.font.weight.mono.medium,
  };
  return (
    <Storybook.TokenReference
      scale="font.weight"
      tokens={tokens}
      renderToken={({token, value}) => (
        <Text
          size="lg"
          style={{fontWeight: value}}
          monospace={token.startsWith('mono')}
          variant="accent"
        >
          {value}
        </Text>
      )}
    />
  );
}

export function FontFamily() {
  const theme = useTheme();
  return (
    <Storybook.TokenReference
      scale="font.family"
      tokens={theme.font.family}
      renderToken={({token}) =>
        token === 'sans' ? (
          <Text wrap="nowrap" size="lg" variant="accent">
            Rubik
          </Text>
        ) : (
          <Text wrap="nowrap" size="lg" monospace variant="accent">
            Roboto Mono
          </Text>
        )
      }
    />
  );
}

export function LineHeight() {
  const theme = useTheme();
  return (
    <Storybook.TokenReference
      scale="font.lineHeight"
      tokens={theme.font.lineHeight}
      renderToken={({value, token}) => (
        <Flex
          align="center"
          justify="center"
          as="div"
          height={typeof value === 'number' ? `${value * 16}px` : value}
          borderTop="accent"
          borderBottom="accent"
          style={{boxSizing: 'border-box'}}
        >
          <Text size="md" density={token} variant="accent">
            Aa
          </Text>
        </Flex>
      )}
    />
  );
}

export function BorderWidth() {
  const theme = useTheme();
  return (
    <Storybook.TokenReference
      scale="border"
      tokens={size.border}
      renderToken={({value}) => (
        <Container
          as="div"
          style={{
            boxSizing: 'border-box',
            width: '48px',
            height: value,
            background: theme.tokens.border.accent.vibrant,
          }}
        />
      )}
    />
  );
}

export function ShadowOffset() {
  const theme = useTheme();
  return (
    <Storybook.TokenReference
      scale="shadow"
      tokens={size.shadow}
      renderToken={({value}) => (
        <Container
          as="div"
          style={{
            boxSizing: 'border-box',
            width: '32px',
            height: '32px',
            background: theme.tokens.background.primary,
            boxShadow: `0 ${value} 0 0 ${theme.tokens.border.accent.vibrant}`,
          }}
          border="accent"
          radius="xs"
        />
      )}
    />
  );
}

export function flattenTokens(obj, prefix = '') {
  return Object.entries(obj).reduce((result, entry) => {
    const key = entry[0];
    const value = entry[1];
    const path = prefix ? `${prefix}.${key}` : key;
    if (typeof value === 'string') {
      result[path] = value;
    } else if (typeof value === 'object' && value !== null && !Array.isArray(value)) {
      Object.assign(result, flattenTokens(value, path));
    }
    return result;
  }, {});
}

export function BackgroundColors() {
  const theme = useTheme();
  const bg = theme.tokens.background;
  const groups = [
    {
      label: 'surface',
      tokens: {
        primary: bg.primary,
        secondary: bg.secondary,
        tertiary: bg.tertiary,
        overlay: bg.overlay,
      },
    },
    {
      label: 'semantic',
      tokens: {
        'accent.vibrant': bg.accent.vibrant,
        'promotion.vibrant': bg.promotion.vibrant,
        'danger.vibrant': bg.danger.vibrant,
        'warning.vibrant': bg.warning.vibrant,
        'success.vibrant': bg.success.vibrant,
      },
    },
    {
      label: 'transparent',
      tokens: flattenTokens(bg.transparent),
    },
  ];
  return (
    <Storybook.ColorReference
      scale="background"
      groups={groups}
      fill
      renderToken={({value}) => (
        <Container
          as="div"
          style={{
            boxSizing: 'border-box',
            width: '100%',
            height: '48px',
            background: value,
          }}
          border="muted"
          radius="sm"
        />
      )}
    />
  );
}

export function ContentColors() {
  const theme = useTheme();
  const ct = theme.tokens.content;
  const groups = [
    {
      label: 'text',
      tokens: {
        primary: ct.primary,
        secondary: ct.secondary,
        headings: ct.headings,
        disabled: ct.disabled,
      },
    },
    {
      label: 'semantic',
      tokens: {
        accent: ct.accent,
        promotion: ct.promotion,
        danger: ct.danger,
        warning: ct.warning,
        success: ct.success,
      },
    },
    {
      label: 'onVibrant',
      tokens: {
        'onVibrant.light': ct.onVibrant.light,
        'onVibrant.dark': ct.onVibrant.dark,
      },
    },
  ];
  return (
    <Storybook.ColorReference
      scale="content"
      groups={groups}
      renderToken={({value}) => (
        <Text size="xl" style={{color: value}}>
          Aa
        </Text>
      )}
    />
  );
}

export function BorderColors() {
  const theme = useTheme();
  const bd = theme.tokens.border;
  const groups = [
    {
      label: 'base',
      tokens: {
        primary: bd.primary,
        secondary: bd.secondary,
      },
    },
    {label: 'neutral', tokens: flattenTokens(bd.neutral)},
    {label: 'accent', tokens: flattenTokens(bd.accent)},
    {label: 'promotion', tokens: flattenTokens(bd.promotion)},
    {label: 'danger', tokens: flattenTokens(bd.danger)},
    {label: 'warning', tokens: flattenTokens(bd.warning)},
    {label: 'success', tokens: flattenTokens(bd.success)},
    {label: 'onVibrant', tokens: flattenTokens(bd.onVibrant)},
  ];
  return (
    <Storybook.ColorReference
      scale="border"
      columns={2}
      groups={groups}
      renderToken={({value}) => (
        <Container
          as="div"
          background="primary"
          style={{
            boxSizing: 'border-box',
            width: '48px',
            height: '48px',
            border: `2px solid ${value}`,
          }}
          radius="sm"
        />
      )}
    />
  );
}

export function GraphicsColors() {
  const theme = useTheme();
  const gx = theme.tokens.graphics;
  const groups = [
    {label: 'neutral', tokens: flattenTokens(gx.neutral)},
    {label: 'accent', tokens: flattenTokens(gx.accent)},
    {label: 'promotion', tokens: flattenTokens(gx.promotion)},
    {label: 'danger', tokens: flattenTokens(gx.danger)},
    {label: 'warning', tokens: flattenTokens(gx.warning)},
    {label: 'success', tokens: flattenTokens(gx.success)},
  ];
  return (
    <Storybook.ColorReference
      scale="graphics"
      groups={groups}
      renderToken={({value}) => (
        <Container
          as="div"
          style={{
            boxSizing: 'border-box',
            width: '24px',
            height: '24px',
            background: value,
            borderRadius: '50%',
          }}
        />
      )}
    />
  );
}

export function ShadowColors() {
  const theme = useTheme();
  const sh = theme.tokens.shadow;
  const groups = [
    {
      label: 'elevation',
      tokens: {
        elevationLow: sh.elevationLow,
        elevationMedium: sh.elevationMedium,
      },
    },
  ];
  return (
    <Storybook.ColorReference
      scale="shadow"
      groups={groups}
      renderToken={({value}) => (
        <Container
          as="div"
          style={{
            boxSizing: 'border-box',
            width: '40px',
            height: '40px',
            background: theme.tokens.background.primary,
            boxShadow: `0 4px 8px ${value}`,
          }}
          border="muted"
          radius="sm"
        />
      )}
    />
  );
}

export function FocusColors() {
  const theme = useTheme();
  const fc = theme.tokens.focus;
  const groups = [
    {
      label: 'states',
      tokens: {
        default: fc.default,
        invalid: fc.invalid,
      },
    },
    {
      label: 'onVibrant',
      tokens: {
        'onVibrant.light': fc.onVibrant.light,
        'onVibrant.dark': fc.onVibrant.dark,
      },
    },
  ];
  return (
    <Storybook.ColorReference
      scale="focus"
      groups={groups}
      renderToken={({value}) => (
        <Container
          as="div"
          style={{
            boxSizing: 'border-box',
            width: '40px',
            height: '40px',
            background: theme.tokens.background.primary,
            outline: `2px solid ${value}`,
            outlineOffset: '2px',
          }}
          radius="sm"
        />
      )}
    />
  );
}

export function DatavizCategoricalColors() {
  const theme = useTheme();
  const categorical = theme.tokens.dataviz.categorical;
  const fullPalette = categorical[categorical.length - 1] ?? [];
  const tokens = Object.fromEntries(fullPalette.map((value, i) => [String(i), value]));
  const groups = [{tokens}];
  return (
    <Storybook.ColorReference
      scale="dataviz.categorical"
      groups={groups}
      renderToken={({value}) => (
        <Container
          as="div"
          style={{
            boxSizing: 'border-box',
            width: '24px',
            height: '24px',
            background: value,
            borderRadius: '50%',
          }}
        />
      )}
    />
  );
}

export function DatavizSemanticColors() {
  const theme = useTheme();
  const semantic = theme.tokens.dataviz.semantic;
  const groups = [
    {
      tokens: {
        neutral: semantic.neutral,
        accent: semantic.accent,
        good: semantic.good,
        meh: semantic.meh,
        bad: semantic.bad,
        release: semantic.release,
        other: semantic.other,
      },
    },
  ];
  return (
    <Storybook.ColorReference
      scale="dataviz.semantic"
      groups={groups}
      renderToken={({value}) => (
        <Container
          as="div"
          style={{
            boxSizing: 'border-box',
            width: '24px',
            height: '24px',
            background: value,
            borderRadius: '50%',
          }}
        />
      )}
    />
  );
}

Commit message:

docs(tokens): add usage notes

static/app/components/core/principles/tokens/tokens.mdx, after:

---
title: Tokens
description: Tokens are the smallest unit of a Design System. They represent discrete design decisions in a platform-agnostic way.
resources:
  figma: https://www.figma.com/design/97XKAiOW0Rg8Rk1hb02R4E/%F0%9F%90%A6-Primitives?node-id=446-34701&p=f&t=secYuPMqzV9RoH8F-0
  js: https://github.com/getsentry/design-engineering/tree/main/packages/scraps/src/tokens
  reference:
    DTCG Glossary: https://www.designtokens.org/glossary/
    Design Tokens Format Module: https://www.designtokens.org/tr/third-editors-draft/format/
    Design Tokens explained: https://atlassian.design/tokens/design-tokens
---

import {Fragment} from 'react';
import {useTheme} from '@emotion/react';

import {Container, Flex} from 'sentry/components/core/layout';
import {Text} from 'sentry/components/core/text';
import * as Storybook from 'sentry/stories';
// eslint-disable-next-line @sentry/scraps/no-token-import -- temporary until theme.borderWidth is exposed
import {size} from 'sentry/utils/theme/scraps/tokens/size';

> [!WARNING]
>
> These tokens are exposed here for **reference and documentation**, not as a primary integration surface.

**Designers**, please use the [**Primitives** library](https://www.figma.com/design/97XKAiOW0Rg8Rk1hb02R4E/%F0%9F%90%A6-Primitives) in Figma as the source of truth.

**Developers**, consume tokens by composing **component primitives** (e.g. [`<Container />`](/stories/layout/container/), [`<Text />`](/stories/typography/text/)) with the correct props. Let the components do the wiring.

One **exception** is low-level `core` components maintained by the **Design Engineering team**, which may access tokens directly when abstraction isn’t practical.

# Color

## Categories

Colors have been organized into separate scales for specific use cases.

| Category      | Description                                                                                            |
| ------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `background`  | Painting an element's background.                                                                      |
| `content`     | Painting text and icons which need to stand out the most.                                              |
| `graphics`    | Painting icons and other graphical elements which don't need to stand out as much as `content` tokens. |
| `border`      | Painting borders of containers or visual diagrams.                                                     |
| `shadow`      | Painting shadows of containers.                                                                        |
| `interactive` | Painting interactive elements and all their states.                                                    |
| `syntax`      | Painting `<code/>` elements that depend on PrismJS.                                                    |
| `focus`       | Painting `:focus` or validation states.                                                                |
| `dataviz`     | Painting chart data.                                                                                   |

## Variants

For consistency, token scales and `variant` properties have been standardized with the following terminology.

> [!TIP]
>
> `sentry/utils/theme` exposes standardized, public types for `SurfaceVariant`, `SemanticVariant`, `ContentVariant`, `GraphicsVariant`, and `BorderVariant`.

| Keyword     | Description                                                   |
| ----------- | ------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `neutral`   | Neutral is the subtle, grayscale variant                      |
| `accent`    | The call-to-action colour for interactive elements.           |
| `info`      | Semantically charged, informing users of important facts.     |
| `promotion` | Semantically charged, encouraging users to invest in Sentry.  |
| `warning`   | Semantically charged, alerting users of a potential issue.    |
| `danger`    | Semantically charged, alerting users of a issue.              |
| `success`   | Semantically charged, informing users of a desired end-state. |

## Background

Background tokens paint an element's background.

<BackgroundColors />

## Content

Content tokens paint text and icons.

<ContentColors />

## Border

Border tokens paint borders of containers.

<BorderColors />

## Graphics

Graphics tokens paint icons and other graphical elements.

<GraphicsColors />

## Shadow

Shadow tokens paint shadows of containers.

<ShadowColors />

## Focus

Focus tokens paint focus rings and validation states.

<FocusColors />

## Dataviz

Dataviz tokens paint chart data. The categorical scale provides colors for series data, while the semantic scale provides meaningful colors for outcomes.

### Categorical

<DatavizCategoricalColors />

### Semantic

<DatavizSemanticColors />

# Size

Size based tokens are based on a `4px` grid.

## Space

Space values are used for layout components such as [`<Container/>`](/stories/layout/container), [`<Flex/>`](/stories/layout/flex), [`<Grid/>`](/stories/layout/grid), as well as CSS properties like `gap` and `padding`.

<Space />

## Radius

Radius values define the rounded corners of [`<Container />`](/stories/layout/container) and [`<Flex />`](/stories/layout/flex) components using the CSS property `border-radius`.

<Radius />

## Border Width

Border Width values define the thickness of borders using the CSS properties `border-width` and `outline-width`.

<BorderWidth />

## Shadow Offset

Shadow Offset values define the distance of shadows and borders for raised interactive elements.

<ShadowOffset />

# Typography

Typography tokens are used with the [`<Text />`](/stories/typography/text) and [`<Heading />`](/stories/typography/heading) components to define Sentry's information hierarchy.

## Font Size

<FontSize />

## Font Weight

<FontWeight />

## Font Family

<FontFamily />

## Line Height

<LineHeight />

export function Space() {
  const theme = useTheme();
  return (
    <Storybook.TokenReference
      scale="space"
      tokens={theme.space}
      renderToken={({value}) => (
        <Flex
          align="center"
          justify="center"
          as="div"
          width={value}
          height="16px"
          borderLeft="accent"
          borderRight="accent"
          style={{boxSizing: 'border-box'}}
        >
          <Container
            as="div"
            width="100%"
            height="1px"
            borderTop="accent"
            style={{boxSizing: 'border-box'}}
          />
        </Flex>
      )}
    />
  );
}

export function Radius() {
  const theme = useTheme();
  return (
    <Storybook.TokenReference
      scale="radius"
      tokens={theme.radius}
      renderToken={({token}) => (
        <Container
          as="div"
          style={{
            boxSizing: 'border-box',
            width: '48px',
            height: '48px',
            background: theme.tokens.background.transparent.accent.muted,
          }}
          border="accent"
          radius={token}
        />
      )}
    />
  );
}

export function FontSize() {
  const theme = useTheme();
  return (
    <Storybook.TokenReference
      scale="font.size"
      tokens={theme.font.size}
      renderToken={({token}) => (
        <Text size={token} variant="accent">
          Aa
        </Text>
      )}
    />
  );
}

export function FontWeight() {
  const theme = useTheme();
  const tokens = {
    'sans.regular': theme.font.weight.sans.regular,
    'sans.medium': theme.font.weight.sans.medium,
    'mono.regular': theme.font.weight.mono.regular,
    'mono.medium': theme.font.weight.mono.medium,
  };
  return (
    <Storybook.TokenReference
      scale="font.weight"
      tokens={tokens}
      renderToken={({token, value}) => (
        <Text
          size="lg"
          style={{fontWeight: value}}
          monospace={token.startsWith('mono')}
          variant="accent"
        >
          {value}
        </Text>
      )}
    />
  );
}

export function FontFamily() {
  const theme = useTheme();
  return (
    <Storybook.TokenReference
      scale="font.family"
      tokens={theme.font.family}
      renderToken={({token}) =>
        token === 'sans' ? (
          <Text wrap="nowrap" size="lg" variant="accent">
            Rubik
          </Text>
        ) : (
          <Text wrap="nowrap" size="lg" monospace variant="accent">
            Roboto Mono
          </Text>
        )
      }
    />
  );
}

export function LineHeight() {
  const theme = useTheme();
  return (
    <Storybook.TokenReference
      scale="font.lineHeight"
      tokens={theme.font.lineHeight}
      renderToken={({value, token}) => (
        <Flex
          align="center"
          justify="center"
          as="div"
          height={typeof value === 'number' ? `${value * 16}px` : value}
          borderTop="accent"
          borderBottom="accent"
          style={{boxSizing: 'border-box'}}
        >
          <Text size="md" density={token} variant="accent">
            Aa
          </Text>
        </Flex>
      )}
    />
  );
}

export function BorderWidth() {
  const theme = useTheme();
  return (
    <Storybook.TokenReference
      scale="border"
      tokens={size.border}
      renderToken={({value}) => (
        <Container
          as="div"
          style={{
            boxSizing: 'border-box',
            width: '48px',
            height: value,
            background: theme.tokens.border.accent.vibrant,
          }}
        />
      )}
    />
  );
}

export function ShadowOffset() {
  const theme = useTheme();
  return (
    <Storybook.TokenReference
      scale="shadow"
      tokens={size.shadow}
      renderToken={({value}) => (
        <Container
          as="div"
          style={{
            boxSizing: 'border-box',
            width: '32px',
            height: '32px',
            background: theme.tokens.background.primary,
            boxShadow: `0 ${value} 0 0 ${theme.tokens.border.accent.vibrant}`,
          }}
          border="accent"
          radius="xs"
        />
      )}
    />
  );
}

export function flattenTokens(obj, prefix = '') {
  return Object.entries(obj).reduce((result, entry) => {
    const key = entry[0];
    const value = entry[1];
    const path = prefix ? `${prefix}.${key}` : key;
    if (typeof value === 'string') {
      result[path] = value;
    } else if (typeof value === 'object' && value !== null && !Array.isArray(value)) {
      Object.assign(result, flattenTokens(value, path));
    }
    return result;
  }, {});
}

export function BackgroundColors() {
  const theme = useTheme();
  const bg = theme.tokens.background;
  const groups = [
    {
      label: 'surface',
      tokens: {
        primary: bg.primary,
        secondary: bg.secondary,
        tertiary: bg.tertiary,
        overlay: bg.overlay,
      },
    },
    {
      label: 'semantic',
      tokens: {
        'accent.vibrant': bg.accent.vibrant,
        'promotion.vibrant': bg.promotion.vibrant,
        'danger.vibrant': bg.danger.vibrant,
        'warning.vibrant': bg.warning.vibrant,
        'success.vibrant': bg.success.vibrant,
      },
    },
    {
      label: 'transparent',
      tokens: flattenTokens(bg.transparent),
    },
  ];
  return (
    <Storybook.ColorReference
      scale="background"
      groups={groups}
      fill
      renderToken={({value}) => (
        <Container
          as="div"
          style={{
            boxSizing: 'border-box',
            width: '100%',
            height: '48px',
            background: value,
          }}
          border="muted"
          radius="sm"
        />
      )}
    />
  );
}

export function ContentColors() {
  const theme = useTheme();
  const ct = theme.tokens.content;
  const groups = [
    {
      label: 'text',
      tokens: {
        primary: ct.primary,
        secondary: ct.secondary,
        headings: ct.headings,
        disabled: ct.disabled,
      },
    },
    {
      label: 'semantic',
      tokens: {
        accent: ct.accent,
        promotion: ct.promotion,
        danger: ct.danger,
        warning: ct.warning,
        success: ct.success,
      },
    },
    {
      label: 'onVibrant',
      tokens: {
        'onVibrant.light': ct.onVibrant.light,
        'onVibrant.dark': ct.onVibrant.dark,
      },
    },
  ];
  return (
    <Storybook.ColorReference
      scale="content"
      groups={groups}
      renderToken={({value}) => (
        <Text size="xl" style={{color: value}}>
          Aa
        </Text>
      )}
    />
  );
}

export function BorderColors() {
  const theme = useTheme();
  const bd = theme.tokens.border;
  const groups = [
    {
      label: 'base',
      tokens: {
        primary: bd.primary,
        secondary: bd.secondary,
      },
    },
    {label: 'neutral', tokens: flattenTokens(bd.neutral)},
    {label: 'accent', tokens: flattenTokens(bd.accent)},
    {label: 'promotion', tokens: flattenTokens(bd.promotion)},
    {label: 'danger', tokens: flattenTokens(bd.danger)},
    {label: 'warning', tokens: flattenTokens(bd.warning)},
    {label: 'success', tokens: flattenTokens(bd.success)},
    {label: 'onVibrant', tokens: flattenTokens(bd.onVibrant)},
  ];
  return (
    <Storybook.ColorReference
      scale="border"
      columns={2}
      groups={groups}
      renderToken={({value}) => (
        <Container
          as="div"
          background="primary"
          style={{
            boxSizing: 'border-box',
            width: '48px',
            height: '48px',
            border: `2px solid ${value}`,
          }}
          radius="sm"
        />
      )}
    />
  );
}

export function GraphicsColors() {
  const theme = useTheme();
  const gx = theme.tokens.graphics;
  const groups = [
    {label: 'neutral', tokens: flattenTokens(gx.neutral)},
    {label: 'accent', tokens: flattenTokens(gx.accent)},
    {label: 'promotion', tokens: flattenTokens(gx.promotion)},
    {label: 'danger', tokens: flattenTokens(gx.danger)},
    {label: 'warning', tokens: flattenTokens(gx.warning)},
    {label: 'success', tokens: flattenTokens(gx.success)},
  ];
  return (
    <Storybook.ColorReference
      scale="graphics"
      groups={groups}
      renderToken={({value}) => (
        <Container
          as="div"
          style={{
            boxSizing: 'border-box',
            width: '24px',
            height: '24px',
            background: value,
            borderRadius: '50%',
          }}
        />
      )}
    />
  );
}

export function ShadowColors() {
  const theme = useTheme();
  const sh = theme.tokens.shadow;
  const groups = [
    {
      label: 'elevation',
      tokens: {
        elevationLow: sh.elevationLow,
        elevationMedium: sh.elevationMedium,
      },
    },
  ];
  return (
    <Storybook.ColorReference
      scale="shadow"
      groups={groups}
      renderToken={({value}) => (
        <Container
          as="div"
          style={{
            boxSizing: 'border-box',
            width: '40px',
            height: '40px',
            background: theme.tokens.background.primary,
            boxShadow: `0 4px 8px ${value}`,
          }}
          border="muted"
          radius="sm"
        />
      )}
    />
  );
}

export function FocusColors() {
  const theme = useTheme();
  const fc = theme.tokens.focus;
  const groups = [
    {
      label: 'states',
      tokens: {
        default: fc.default,
        invalid: fc.invalid,
      },
    },
    {
      label: 'onVibrant',
      tokens: {
        'onVibrant.light': fc.onVibrant.light,
        'onVibrant.dark': fc.onVibrant.dark,
      },
    },
  ];
  return (
    <Storybook.ColorReference
      scale="focus"
      groups={groups}
      renderToken={({value}) => (
        <Container
          as="div"
          style={{
            boxSizing: 'border-box',
            width: '40px',
            height: '40px',
            background: theme.tokens.background.primary,
            outline: `2px solid ${value}`,
            outlineOffset: '2px',
          }}
          radius="sm"
        />
      )}
    />
  );
}

export function DatavizCategoricalColors() {
  const theme = useTheme();
  const categorical = theme.tokens.dataviz.categorical;
  const fullPalette = categorical[categorical.length - 1] ?? [];
  const tokens = Object.fromEntries(fullPalette.map((value, i) => [String(i), value]));
  const groups = [{tokens}];
  return (
    <Storybook.ColorReference
      scale="dataviz.categorical"
      groups={groups}
      renderToken={({value}) => (
        <Container
          as="div"
          style={{
            boxSizing: 'border-box',
            width: '24px',
            height: '24px',
            background: value,
            borderRadius: '50%',
          }}
        />
      )}
    />
  );
}

export function DatavizSemanticColors() {
  const theme = useTheme();
  const semantic = theme.tokens.dataviz.semantic;
  const groups = [
    {
      tokens: {
        neutral: semantic.neutral,
        accent: semantic.accent,
        good: semantic.good,
        meh: semantic.meh,
        bad: semantic.bad,
        release: semantic.release,
        other: semantic.other,
      },
    },
  ];
  return (
    <Storybook.ColorReference
      scale="dataviz.semantic"
      groups={groups}
      renderToken={({value}) => (
        <Container
          as="div"
          style={{
            boxSizing: 'border-box',
            width: '24px',
            height: '24px',
            background: value,
            borderRadius: '50%',
          }}
        />
      )}
    />
  );
}
