static/app/components/core/contributing.mdx, before:

---
title: Contributing
layout: document
description: Guidelines for contributing to Scraps, Sentry's design system.
---

This guide is for engineers and designers at Sentry who want to contribute to Scraps.

**Scraps** is Sentry's design system. It includes core primitive React components, hooks, design tokens, and patterns that we use to build Sentry's UI. Keep in mind that while we strive to have a 1:1 mapping between Figma and code, some gaps and inconsistencies currently exist.

# Contributing to Core Components

Core components (`static/app/components/core/*`) are the foundational building blocks of Sentry's UI. The Design Engineering team maintains `@sentry/scraps` components to ensure consistency, accessibility, and quality across the product.

## What's Always Welcome

You can contribute the following **without asking first**:

- **Bug fixes** - Fix broken functionality or incorrect behavior
- **Accessibility improvements** - Enhance keyboard navigation, screen reader support, ARIA attributes, or color contrast
- **Documentation improvements** - Fix typos, clarify wording, add notes, and generally [improve documentation](#contributing-to-stories-documentation) for core and product-specific components

For these contributions, open a PR directly with your changes.

## What Requires Discussion

Please **ask first in `#discuss-design-engineering`** before working on:

- **API additions to existing components** - New props, methods, or functionality
- **New components or features** - Proposing entirely new components for `core/*`
- **Visual or styling changes** - Any changes to appearance, as these need to be coordinated with Product Design

We're still developing a formal request process, but for now, share your proposal in Slack to get feedback before investing time in implementation.

## Review and Approval

All changes to core components:

- Must be reviewed and approved by `@CODEOWNERS`
- If applicable, update or add documentation (`.mdx` stories)
- If applicable, update or add tests (unit tests, accessibility tests, or visual regression tests as appropriate)

## Prerequisites

To work with core components locally, you'll need a frontend development environment. If you don't have one set up yet, follow the [frontend development setup guide](https://develop.sentry.dev/development-infrastructure/frontend-development-server/).

Once you have a local development environment setup, run `pnpm run dev-ui` to run the dev server, or `pnpm run dev-ui-storybook` to run the dev server and generate component types at build time (comes at the expense of slower dev server startup).

# Contributing to Design Tokens

Design tokens are the design system's atomic values: colors, spacing, typography, motion, and more. They're defined in the `static/app/utils/theme/scraps/` directory.

## For Most Engineers and Designers

**Do not directly update design tokens.** These files are generated from our Figma library. Instead, request token changes from the Design Engineering team, who will run an import.

1. Post in `#discuss-design-engineering` with your request
2. Explain the use case and why existing tokens don't work
3. The Design Engineering team will evaluate and implement if appropriate

## For Design Engineers

If you're maintaining design tokens, Figma is our **single source of truth**. Tokens live in the [🐦 Primitives](https://www.figma.com/design/97XKAiOW0Rg8Rk1hb02R4E/%F0%9F%90%A6-Primitives?node-id=448-117235&p=f&t=7adWUIjDzCMN7Ql6-0) library as [Variables](https://help.figma.com/hc/en-us/articles/15339657135383-Guide-to-variables-in-Figma).

### Update Process

1. **Export from Figma** using the [TokensBrücke plugin](https://figma.com/community/plugin/1254538877056388290)
   - Ensure settings: Color Mode = HEX, Use DTCG keys format = true
   - Save as `export.json` in the tokens package

2. **Import and build** in the [`design-engineering`](https://github.com/getsentry/design-engineering/) repo:

   ```bash
   pnpm --filter @scraps/tokens run import
   pnpm --filter @scraps/tokens run build
   ```

3. **Deploy to Sentry** by copying `/packages/tokens/dist` to `static/app/utils/theme/scraps/` in the `getsentry/sentry` repository

For detailed instructions, see the [tokens CONTRIBUTING.md](https://github.com/getsentry/design-engineering/blob/main/packages/tokens/CONTRIBUTING.md) in the `design-engineering` repo.

# Contributing to Stories Documentation

**Stories** is the documentation system for Scraps. Each story describes how to use a React component or hook, its public API, intended behavior, and common usage patterns.

## Ownership

Stories for core components are owned by the Design Engineering team. Stories for product-specific components are maintained by the teams responsible for those product areas. However, **all documentation is a shared responsibility**—if you notice a mistake or omission while reading a story, consider it an opportunity to leave the docs in better shape than you found them.

## Creating New Stories

### File Structure

The easiest way to document a component is to create an `.mdx` file next to the component. For a new `myButton` component, the file should be named `myButton.mdx`.

```
components/
└── myButton.tsx
└── myButton.mdx
```

### Frontmatter

All `.mdx` files should include frontmatter with metadata about the component. The following fields are supported:

```yaml
---
title: My Button
description: MyButton is a clickable element that triggers an action.
source: 'sentry/components/myButton'
# Optionally include links to Figma, source code, and accessibility resources:
resources:
  figma: https://www.figma.com/design/...
  js: https://github.com/getsentry/sentry/...
  a11y:
    WCAG 1.4.3: https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG22/#contrast-minimum
    WAI-ARIA Button Practices: https://www.w3.org/WAI/ARIA/apg/patterns/button/
---
```

**Required fields:**

- `title`: The display name of the component or pattern
- `description`: A brief description of what the component does

**Optional fields:**

- `layout`: Use `document` for principle/pattern pages
- `source`: Path to the component source code
- `status`: Use `in-progress` for incomplete documentation
- `resources`: Links to related resources (Figma designs, source code, accessibility references)

### Auto-Generated API Documentation

Components can include auto-generated API documentation using our custom type-loader. Export an object named `documentation` with the loaded types:

```tsx
import documentation from '!!type-loader!@sentry/scraps/button/linkButton';

export {documentation};
```

> [!TIP]
> The [inline loader syntax](https://rspack.rs/api/loader-api/inline) looks unusual, but it's required for Rspack to process the types correctly. Note that the documentation will not be generated unless you run `pnpm run dev-ui-storybook`.

For a complete example, see the [`button.mdx`](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry/blob/master/static/app/components/core/button/index.mdx?plain=1) file.

## Writing Good Documentation

### Structure Your Content

Use clear heading hierarchy to make documentation scannable:

- Use `#` for major sections
- Use `##` for subsections
- Use `###` for specific examples or variations

### Include Code Examples

Show real-world usage examples with code snippets:

```tsx
import {Button} from 'sentry/components/core/button';

function Example() {
  return <Button onClick={handleClick}>Click Me</Button>;
}
```

### Document Common Patterns

Include sections for:

- Basic usage
- Common variations
- Props and configuration options
- Accessibility considerations
- When to use (and when not to use) the component

### Use Callouts

Emphasize important information with callouts:

```mdx
> [!TIP]
> Helpful tips and best practices

> [!WARNING]
> Important warnings or limitations
```

## Improving Existing Stories

Stories documentation is a living system. When you encounter documentation that could be improved:

1. **Fix typos and clarity issues** directly in the `.mdx` file
2. **Add missing examples** to help others understand usage patterns
3. **Update outdated information** when APIs or patterns change
4. **Fill in gaps** in documentation coverage

Don't hesitate to make improvements, even to documentation you didn't write originally.

# Getting Help

The Design Engineering team is always available to answer questions and provide guidance on contributing to Scraps.

- **Core components**: Ask in `#discuss-design-engineering` on Slack
- **Design tokens**: Request changes in `#discuss-design-engineering`
- **Stories documentation**: Questions or feedback in `#discuss-design-engineering`
- **Specific components**: Check the component's story for ownership information

All code for Scraps, including the Stories framework, is built and maintained by Sentry's Design Engineering team on behalf of all teams. Contributions are always welcome!

Commit message:

feat(stories): add `reference` to frontmatter

static/app/components/core/contributing.mdx, after:

---
title: Contributing
layout: document
description: Guidelines for contributing to Scraps, Sentry's design system.
---

This guide is for engineers and designers at Sentry who want to contribute to Scraps.

**Scraps** is Sentry's design system. It includes core primitive React components, hooks, design tokens, and patterns that we use to build Sentry's UI. Keep in mind that while we strive to have a 1:1 mapping between Figma and code, some gaps and inconsistencies currently exist.

# Contributing to Core Components

Core components (`static/app/components/core/*`) are the foundational building blocks of Sentry's UI. The Design Engineering team maintains `@sentry/scraps` components to ensure consistency, accessibility, and quality across the product.

## What's Always Welcome

You can contribute the following **without asking first**:

- **Bug fixes** - Fix broken functionality or incorrect behavior
- **Accessibility improvements** - Enhance keyboard navigation, screen reader support, ARIA attributes, or color contrast
- **Documentation improvements** - Fix typos, clarify wording, add notes, and generally [improve documentation](#contributing-to-stories-documentation) for core and product-specific components

For these contributions, open a PR directly with your changes.

## What Requires Discussion

Please **ask first in `#discuss-design-engineering`** before working on:

- **API additions to existing components** - New props, methods, or functionality
- **New components or features** - Proposing entirely new components for `core/*`
- **Visual or styling changes** - Any changes to appearance, as these need to be coordinated with Product Design

We're still developing a formal request process, but for now, share your proposal in Slack to get feedback before investing time in implementation.

## Review and Approval

All changes to core components:

- Must be reviewed and approved by `@CODEOWNERS`
- If applicable, update or add documentation (`.mdx` stories)
- If applicable, update or add tests (unit tests, accessibility tests, or visual regression tests as appropriate)

## Prerequisites

To work with core components locally, you'll need a frontend development environment. If you don't have one set up yet, follow the [frontend development setup guide](https://develop.sentry.dev/development-infrastructure/frontend-development-server/).

Once you have a local development environment setup, run `pnpm run dev-ui` to run the dev server, or `pnpm run dev-ui-storybook` to run the dev server and generate component types at build time (comes at the expense of slower dev server startup).

# Contributing to Design Tokens

Design tokens are the design system's atomic values: colors, spacing, typography, motion, and more. They're defined in the `static/app/utils/theme/scraps/` directory.

## For Most Engineers and Designers

**Do not directly update design tokens.** These files are generated from our Figma library. Instead, request token changes from the Design Engineering team, who will run an import.

1. Post in `#discuss-design-engineering` with your request
2. Explain the use case and why existing tokens don't work
3. The Design Engineering team will evaluate and implement if appropriate

## For Design Engineers

If you're maintaining design tokens, Figma is our **single source of truth**. Tokens live in the [🐦 Primitives](https://www.figma.com/design/97XKAiOW0Rg8Rk1hb02R4E/%F0%9F%90%A6-Primitives?node-id=448-117235&p=f&t=7adWUIjDzCMN7Ql6-0) library as [Variables](https://help.figma.com/hc/en-us/articles/15339657135383-Guide-to-variables-in-Figma).

### Update Process

1. **Export from Figma** using the [TokensBrücke plugin](https://figma.com/community/plugin/1254538877056388290)
   - Ensure settings: Color Mode = HEX, Use DTCG keys format = true
   - Save as `export.json` in the tokens package

2. **Import and build** in the [`design-engineering`](https://github.com/getsentry/design-engineering/) repo:

   ```bash
   pnpm --filter @scraps/tokens run import
   pnpm --filter @scraps/tokens run build
   ```

3. **Deploy to Sentry** by copying `/packages/tokens/dist` to `static/app/utils/theme/scraps/` in the `getsentry/sentry` repository

For detailed instructions, see the [tokens CONTRIBUTING.md](https://github.com/getsentry/design-engineering/blob/main/packages/tokens/CONTRIBUTING.md) in the `design-engineering` repo.

# Contributing to Stories Documentation

**Stories** is the documentation system for Scraps. Each story describes how to use a React component or hook, its public API, intended behavior, and common usage patterns.

## Ownership

Stories for core components are owned by the Design Engineering team. Stories for product-specific components are maintained by the teams responsible for those product areas. However, **all documentation is a shared responsibility**—if you notice a mistake or omission while reading a story, consider it an opportunity to leave the docs in better shape than you found them.

## Creating New Stories

### File Structure

The easiest way to document a component is to create an `.mdx` file next to the component. For a new `myButton` component, the file should be named `myButton.mdx`.

```
components/
└── myButton.tsx
└── myButton.mdx
```

### Frontmatter

All `.mdx` files should include frontmatter with metadata about the component. The following fields are supported:

```yaml
---
title: My Button
description: MyButton is a clickable element that triggers an action.
source: 'sentry/components/myButton'
# Optionally include links to Figma, source code, accessibility resources, and further resources:
resources:
  figma: https://www.figma.com/design/...
  js: https://github.com/getsentry/sentry/...
  a11y:
    WCAG 1.4.3: https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG22/#contrast-minimum
    WAI-ARIA Button Practices: https://www.w3.org/WAI/ARIA/apg/patterns/button/
  reference:
    DTCG Glossary: https://www.designtokens.org/glossary/
---
```

**Required fields:**

- `title`: The display name of the component or pattern
- `description`: A brief description of what the component does

**Optional fields:**

- `layout`: Use `document` for principle/pattern pages
- `source`: Path to the component source code
- `status`: Use `in-progress` for incomplete documentation
- `resources`: Links to related resources (valid keys are `figma`, `js`, `a11y`, and `reference`)

### Auto-Generated API Documentation

Components can include auto-generated API documentation using our custom type-loader. Export an object named `documentation` with the loaded types:

```tsx
import documentation from '!!type-loader!@sentry/scraps/button/linkButton';

export {documentation};
```

> [!TIP]
> The [inline loader syntax](https://rspack.rs/api/loader-api/inline) looks unusual, but it's required for Rspack to process the types correctly. Note that the documentation will not be generated unless you run `pnpm run dev-ui-storybook`.

For a complete example, see the [`button.mdx`](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry/blob/master/static/app/components/core/button/index.mdx?plain=1) file.

## Writing Good Documentation

### Structure Your Content

Use clear heading hierarchy to make documentation scannable:

- Use `#` for major sections
- Use `##` for subsections
- Use `###` for specific examples or variations

### Include Code Examples

Show real-world usage examples with code snippets:

```tsx
import {Button} from 'sentry/components/core/button';

function Example() {
  return <Button onClick={handleClick}>Click Me</Button>;
}
```

### Document Common Patterns

Include sections for:

- Basic usage
- Common variations
- Props and configuration options
- Accessibility considerations
- When to use (and when not to use) the component

### Use Callouts

Emphasize important information with callouts:

```mdx
> [!TIP]
> Helpful tips and best practices

> [!WARNING]
> Important warnings or limitations
```

## Improving Existing Stories

Stories documentation is a living system. When you encounter documentation that could be improved:

1. **Fix typos and clarity issues** directly in the `.mdx` file
2. **Add missing examples** to help others understand usage patterns
3. **Update outdated information** when APIs or patterns change
4. **Fill in gaps** in documentation coverage

Don't hesitate to make improvements, even to documentation you didn't write originally.

# Getting Help

The Design Engineering team is always available to answer questions and provide guidance on contributing to Scraps.

- **Core components**: Ask in `#discuss-design-engineering` on Slack
- **Design tokens**: Request changes in `#discuss-design-engineering`
- **Stories documentation**: Questions or feedback in `#discuss-design-engineering`
- **Specific components**: Check the component's story for ownership information

All code for Scraps, including the Stories framework, is built and maintained by Sentry's Design Engineering team on behalf of all teams. Contributions are always welcome!
